this past week in Gaza hospitals have
been under attack we're looking at
Israeli propaganda when it fails and
effectively exposes the war crimes it is
supposed to
justify radical ideas on permanently
displacing gaues have moved from the
Israeli Fringe to the pages of the Wall
Street
Journal and it can be lonely on the
Israeli left a journalist there on her
life and work after October
7th
[Music]
this past Wednesday Israeli forces
raided the biggest Hospital in Gaza Al
shifa after targeting other hospitals
like rantisi and aluts under
International humanitarian law attacking
a hospital is a war crime unless you can
prove that it is being used by your
enemy as a tool of War which is what the
Israeli military has been claiming and
not just since October 7th that alifa
hospital serves as a command center for
Hamas that patients there are being used
as human Shields that has been Israel's
justification for cutting off power and
water to the hospitals cutting short
Palestinian lives basically however when
you examine the evidence that the
Israeli military finally provided this
past week it comes up short some of it
has bordered on the Absurd as a
propaganda effort it was an
embarrassment also compromised in this
operation are the news outlets far too
many of them that have run with the
Israeli version of this story for far
too long they too have some explaining
to
do Ida forces are carrying out a precise
operation against Hamas in the shifa
hospital the Israeli propaganda machine
has a reputation for being effective at
times sophisticated not anymore
after telling the world that a hospital
alifa was hamas's Command Center in Gaza
Israeli forces were finally on the
inside in a position to show us the
evidence and this was the best they
could come up with a few Dozen guns
these weapons have absolutely no
business being inside a hospital what
looks like some new body armor
apparently unused with some branding
conveniently splashed across it but it's
a the military Wing a laptop already
provides a lot of incriminating evidence
and to show their humanitarian side
Israeli soldiers carted in incubators
for babies through a hospital where they
cannot work because Israel has cut off
the electricity propaganda does not get
much clumsier than this it left Israel's
critics unconvinced and had to leave its
supporters mortified I can't imagine
that that anyone let alone you know an
Israeli sitting at home who was
anticipating this big reveal during the
AL shifa Hospital raid would be
satisfied with what was found by the
Israeli military the expectations
surrounding shifa Hospital presumably
and other hospitals in Gaza was that we
were going to find major Hamas
operations underneath these hospitals
but what the Israeli military was
telling us and what it had been building
up for weeks does not fit in with what
quote unquote evidence they have so far
provided it is highly problematic that
uh the Israeli military and Israel
leadership tend to create this
alternative reality that um if you know
what's going on on the ground if you're
talking with colleagues such as I am in
Gaza that you know that the messaging
from the Israeli military and the
Israeli leadership is false two days
before getting into alifa the Israelis
entered another hospital ranzi where a
man in uniform walked viewers through
what they found Daniel hagari is a rear
Admiral the chief spokesperson for the
Israeli military Hamas used this
hospital tonight we have entered into
this building I will show you the
evidence he said that this document
posted on the wall written in Arabic was
a roster of Hamas Fighters proof of
terrorists H up at the hospital this is
a guardian list where every terrorist
writes his name and every Terror has his
own shift guarding the people that were
here but it wasn't a roster with names
on it it was a calendar with days of the
month still the story was off and
running that kind of propaganda would be
dangerous if it made it into the Israeli
media and went no further but that is
not how it works what it's designed for
the IDF Israeli Defense Force has posted
a video of what he claims is a
walkthrough of a Hamas terrorist tunnel
the IDE of spokesman R Admiral Daniel
hagag has also revealed that he had
proof that the basement of the hospital
was being used by Hamas the
Israel generally speaking of course
there are exceptions the Israeli media
certainly the TV channels take whatever
is distributed by the IDF as a proof and
we have signs that they had hostages
with them it's still and this I think is
unfortunate because I'm not saying that
this is fake but I think caution would
demand Israeli journalists to say this
is what the IDF is saying we cannot
verify by by ourselves the mere fact
that this video was aired was broadcast
by these Outlets it shows that they
accept it somehow as being truth and it
leaves the viewer with the
responsibility of questioning the
veracity of it this is the
responsibility of news media Outlets not
to be paring what spokespeople say but
to actually questioning it their job is
to question power not to give a platform
to power to spew whatever lies it wants
to we've seen a concerted campaign by
the Israeli government and by the
Israeli military targeting gaza's
hospitals the she of hospital is the
largest hospital in Gaza City but it's
also one of hamas's headquarters and so
we've seen these narratives that these
hospitals are hot beds of quote unquote
terrorist activity and thus they are
legitimate
targets and that sort of concerted media
and propaganda campaign has led us to
where we are now where we see you know
the near complete collapse of gaza's
Healthcare System Israel's claim that
Hamas is using hospitals as command
centers and patients as human Shields
goes all the way back to 2008 in the 15
years since not a single piece of
irrefutable evidence has been produced
by the Israeli Army to back that up good
evening what the Israelis have been drip
feeding to the media rather than
evidence is their military's own Intel
such as audio files that the Army claims
are gauen saying that Hamas is using
alifa hospital as a
base satellite images with locations
marked in red that the Israelis say show
Hamas infrastructure at hospitals and an
animation that the Israeli military
produced which purports to show Hamas
tunnels under alifa unlike Israeli news
outlets International ones tend to add a
disclaimer that what Israel alleges in
such cases is not verified the
information that's coming out is both
partisan and fragmentary so we have to
the part that too many of them leave out
that Israel has a track record of
disinformation in Gaza allegations that
go unverified that keep making it into
the news cycle spinning the story and
confusing
audiences information that is coming out
of
intelligence uh Services should be
treated with a lot of caution because
because we rely completely on them
especially in times of War when this
information is being used also to
justify all kind of military operations
journalists in Israel have learned from
their own experience that the IDF spok
person is to say the least not always
telling the truth the Israeli military
has claimed that there are Hamas tunnels
under the hospitals the problem with
this is that it is has never been
independently uh verified the director
of shifa Hospital said it's just lies
the Israeli Army spokesman is
propagating false lies and fabricated
reports two Norwegian Physicians
including Dr mads Gilbert who've worked
extensively in alifa claim that there
are no Hamas centers under the hospitals
if it was a military command center I
would not work there and you would think
uh since hospitals are dedicated to
serving patients that if Hamas was
building a Network under the hospital
that the staff would object to
this with disinformation the whole point
is to create confusion to create a
system and where you don't sympathize
with Palestinians and that you don't
want to see an end to this genocide the
point of disinformation is to make it so
that Palestinians are to blame for the
genocide that is being perpetrated
against them and no matter how much we
see these lies being
disproven it doesn't matter because the
the fire has spread and that is the
point of it is to spread fire and to
blame this genocide on
Palestinians that term genocide is not
one you will hear on most international
news outlets when describing what is
unfolding in Gaza and certainly not on
Israeli ones Al jazer is an exception
this network uses genocide in its
reporting and in its straps the graphic
titles used during the coverage of this
story article two of the United Nations
genocide convention defines genocide as
a crime committed with the intent to
destroy a national ethnic racial or
religious group in whole or in part
given the evidence what Palestinians
have seen on the ground the
incriminating statements made by Israeli
leaders
and the often inary narrative on the
Israeli
Airwaves experts in human rights say the
use of the term is not only Justified it
is vitally
important look genocide involves two
components one is you have to show
intention and the second is you have to
show action we've heard leader after
leader say that there are no innocence
in Gaza we've heard of the Israeli Prime
Minister call Palestinian children the
children of darkness and Israeli
children the children of light but then
it's not just a question of what they've
said but what have they done they cut
off water fuel they cut off electricity
Food Supplies and Medicine supplies so
yes we've heard scholar after scholar
including Israeli Scholars Define this
as genocide because that is precisely
what it is should the foreign media be
using it yes of course they should if
the media started to use terminology
like genocide or even like war crimes or
crimes against humanity that would
greatly impact particularly the US
government throwing its support behind
Israel and the atrocities that it's
committing in Gaza right now tens of
thousands of lives are at stake over a
million people have already been
displaced and the media plays an
incredibly important role by the
narratives that we put out into the
world this was the Armory okay this was
the Hamas Armory yeah using terms like
genocide could continue to put pressure
on the governments around the world to
to stop funding and to stop supporting
what Israel is doing in
Gaza large parts of Gaza have been
destroyed almost 1.6 million
Palestinians displaced and now we're
seeing Israeli politicians on the pages
of international newspapers making the
case to drive those people out
permanently Tarak NAFA has been
following the coverage that's right
Richard an oped published in the Wall
Street Journal this week really confirms
what Palestinians say is Israel's
ultimate objective in Gaza to empty it
of those who live there it was written
by two Israeli lawmakers one from the
ruling Coalition the other the
opposition and it effectively calls for
Western help with the expulsion of
Palestinians by accepting them as
refugees Israel's far-right Finance
Minister bezel smotrich was quick to
endorse the plan saying quote voluntary
migration of Palestinians in Gaza is the
right humanitarian solution it's worth
pointing out we've been hearing these
kinds of ideas from former Israeli
officials for weeks so I think this is
an opportunity to call the UN the
International
Community to talk to the president of
Egypt to open the Border and let all the
Palestinian civilians move South into
the the saai peninsula what's happening
now is we're hearing those proposals
from current Israeli officials and
lawmakers some cabinet ministers have
been so transparent in their calls for
genocidal violence and ethnic cleansing
that they've now received a warning from
Israel's prime minister and the Attorney
General to watch their words because
they could be interpreted as war crimes
they include this Israeli Minister Abida
a second neba is a reference to 1948
when
750,000 Palestinians were expelled from
their homes history shows that when that
happens Palestinians are never allowed
to return the UN says 70% of gaza's
population is now displaced Northern
Gaza has been so badly pulverized it may
be uninhabitable for years if the plans
of Israeli politicians are realized the
temporary displacement could turn into
the largest case of ethnic cleansing in
Palestinian history thanks
T the left-wing anti-apartheid side of
Israeli Society is clearly in the
minority these days once the October 7th
attacks took place the country was in a
State of Shock such voices were largely
silenced drowned out by the calls for
vengeance that were getting the Lion
Share of the airtime and that happened
to mirror the messaging coming out of
the Netanyahu government and yet on the
fringes of Israeli public discourse
anti-war voices persist people like Orly
noi she is a journalist and an editor
working with a couple of left-wing
Outlets plus 972 magazine and the Hebrew
language news site local call noi is
also the chair of Israel's foremost
human rights organization bet selum her
message that Israeli Society tedly
approves of ethnic cleansing and
genocidal violence against Palestinians
does not represent mainstream public
opinion there and for that reason it is
a perspective that needs to be heard on
the pain silencing and isolation that
comes with being on the political left
in Israel
today how I'm feeling it's a very qu
difficult question broken worried
anxious
angry
um many many mixed feelings
[Music]
so my name is O noi I'm a Jerusalem
based journalist and editor I also serve
as the chair for uh the Israeli human
right organization
betm
Saturday tends to be a very very quiet
day here in Jerusalem we woke up very
early to the sound of uh
sirens and we immediately understood
that those weren't regular Sirens those
were Sirens of War it's incredibly
difficult to really thoroughly analyze
the impact of October 7th on the Israeli
Society
without a doubt this is conceived as the
biggest tragedy disaster that the uh
country has ever
[Music]
experienced one of the very worrying
things that has been happening in Israel
since October 7th is the silencing of
anyone who dares to speak about a
context you cannot
detach the October 7th from 16 years of
a Siege in the level of
counting the amount of
calories that every gazan is allowed to
consume daily and of course given the
the the annual
bombing you know every summer we just
waiting for Israel to bomb Gaza this is
not
justification what Hamas did on October
7th was really an
unbelievably cruel and heinous crime but
it came within a context just
presented as a a satanic no reason
attack just driven out out of animal
urges or
anti-Semitism is not helping us to find
a way out of this circle of
[Music]
blood voices such as mine and of course
I'm Not The Only One The Voice against
dehumanization of Palestinians we've
always been conceived as uh extremist as
radical October 7th turned me and voices
such as mine into Public Enemies they
are calling us Hamas supporters they are
calling us uh traitors I must say with
great disappointment and sorrow that
some of the voices that joined that uh
public persecution against voices such
as ours used to protest with us against
occupation against
oppression it's really frightening to be
a Palestinian citizens in Israel right
now there are dozens upon dozens upon
dozens of arrests of Palestinian
citizens for minor things such as liking
a post on Facebook that expresses any
solidarity with the gazan people not
with the Hamas the Israeli police made
it very clear that basically it's
illegal to oppose the war this is the
reason that the leadership of the
Palestinian citizens were
arrested they actually notified the
Israeli police that they wanted to hold
a quiet small rally against the war they
were all arrested so the same day when
we
went for a silent
protest Jewish activists against those
arrest we were brutally beaten by the
police we just stood there with masking
tapes on our mouths and they just came
at us beating us up
uh uh making
[Music]
arrests I'm really worried that once the
dust of war sets we will face a new
reality in terms of the relations
between the state and its Palestinian
citizens and in terms of the shrinking
spaces of Palestinians inside the
Israeli Civil
Society the Israeli media has always
been very much
patriotic but since October 7th the
Israeli mainstream media became full
collaborator with those Trends
mainly
by uh completely blocking out the
Israeli public from
receiving uh
information about what's going on on the
on the other side as a progressive
mainstream
media plays a very important role the
constant coverage of Amir Hass of gidon
Levy of
hagara those are really precious
important valuable journalist but
exactly because of that important role
of
it is so disappointing to see that they
are giving room
to heinous opinion
pieces completely dehumanizing
Palestinians in
Gaza I did expect a
shift in the opinion of people but not
to that
extent such a trauma a collective trauma
creat a need to rejoin your
tribe from which as a leftist you've
been excluded for a very very long time
so this Collective trauma is sort of a
an invitation for those who left quote
unquote the tribe to gather back in
uh embrac the collective narrative and
this is what many of the left Camp
did October 7th completely shook up that
equation that Israel was the oppressor
the bad guys the Palestinians were
always in the place of the
victims and the Israeli left is the good
guys all of a sudden for one moment the
Palestinians stepped out of the
place of being just
victims and became victimizers that
moment broke down the understanding of
the reality for many people it's a
result of constructing the Palestinian
case for so many years solely as a
humanitarian case rather than a politic
iCal one one of the things that really
hurt the most for me is the
delegitimization of my own grief over
October
7th it's like we were stripped from the
legitimacy to share that public grief if
we do not support the massacre in Gaza
right now and if you're not
willing to be fully part of that
narrative you're not allowed to even
grief the horrible disaster of October
[Music]
7th you've been watching the listening
post our sixth full edition program on
Gaza and Israel since the attacks of
October 7th what has happened since that
day the reduction of large parts of Gaza
into a wasteland the unprecedented
killing of Palestinians the forced
Exodus of 70% of the strip's population
no amount of propaganda can possibly
justify not that the Israeli PR machine
won't keep trying watch this space for
where this story goes
next